Ryogi!
See?
You're still doing it
even now.
You're a full‐fledged
shinobi...
but you aren't even
trying to capture me.
You're all talk and no action.
(SHIKADAI) [grunt]
Ice Style: Mangehyo!
Don't go!
Ryogi!
[quiet breath]
Shikadai!
[gasp]
We've been trying to find you.
What are you doing?
Oh, well, um...
nothing much.
We've been called to assemble!
Come on, hurry!
Assemble?
Yeah, there's trouble brewing
at the Kaminarimon Company
right now!
[sigh]
[protesting and chattering]
The Kaminarimon Company
is done!
is unjust!
Protect the workers rights!
[laughing]
Ryogi,
never in a million years
did I think your strategy
would work out so well.
We could even
leave the protest
and the chaos would
continue to spread.
Once the current
begins to flow,
there's no stopping it!
That's the nature of reality.
[sigh]
SHIKADAI)
You're...
with the Byakuya Gang,
right?
[protesting chatter]
Mm? What's the matter, Ryogi?
Oh...nothing.
I heard what you said.
Heh.
All right,
let's continue with
the Crest of Night Strategy!
You wouldn't dare
make a move...
And even if you did,
you can't do anything
about it.
Since yesterday,
these flyers
have been distributed
all over the village.
"The Hidden Leaf Village
is about to be reborn...
"Those of like minds,
gather tonight at midnight
"in front of
the Kaminarimon Company...
the symbol of depravity
in this village...
"In the name of true justice."
[aggravated sigh]
The hell do they think
they are?!
So all of the recent
disturbances...
must have been leading up to
this one big protest.
One thing's for sure...
We can no longer
afford to ignore it.
Innocent villagers
will be in danger,
especially
if this gets bigger.
Of course,
we won't allow that to happen.
We've already sent in
several police agents.
Security will be very tight
at Kaminarimon.
All our resources are on it.
The problem is...
...the protestors are
ordinary citizens, not ninja.
We can't do
anything too rough.
We'll just have to
appease them
by being calm and
asking them nicely
to disperse as peacefully
as possible...
That will be our mission,
you got that?
[sigh]
Boruto, what's wrong?
Uh...
I don't know...
I'm not used to
this kind of mission
It makes me
a little nervous...
We won't be
fighting the enemy.
We'll be confronting
ordinary citizens.
What if someone gets hurt?
Kinda scary.
[sigh]
Still though...
it's our job as ninjas.
In fact, it's also our duty...
to figure out
how to do it well and safely.
Mm.
In just a minute,
I'll be giving each team
their section assignments.
Please get to your positions
as quickly as possible.
You will then wait there
for further instruction.
‐ Yes, sir!
[chattering]
Sorry to keep you waiting!
It's decided.
‐ Huh?
You've been assigned to
a critical spot.
It's close to
the company headquarters.
And it's an important
location.
Okay,
we get that it's important,
but what are we
supposed to actually do?
Yeah, what do we do?
Don't worry.
Just remember
you've got Shikadai with you.
He's level‐headed,
so you'll be fine.
[grunt]
See?
You're still doing it,
even now.
You're a full‐fledged
shinobi...
but you aren't even
trying to capture me.
You're all talk
and no action.
[heavy breath]
Damn it!
The scope of this job
is so big
even all the jonin
had to get involved!
And all we can do is stand by
and watch from here!
Why do we have to be
suspended right now?
I know it is frustrating,
but it is our job
to endure it.
To a ninja,
an order is always absolute.
[grunts]
[chattering]
There's so many people
down there on guard.
[gasp]
Please be careful
everyone!
Wow! So these are
all the protesters, huh?
They weren't kidding.
If all these people
make a move,
it'll be complete chaos!
‐ [chewing]
‐ Dad and the others
are guarding
the front of the building,
so it should be okay.
This configuration...
It's familiar...
Hey, why is Shikadai
acting super weird?
How should I know?!
He's been like this ever since
we got called to assemble.
Well, anyway...
All these pieces lined up
look like that thing
he does...
you know...
it's that game
he's always playing...
What's the name of it again?
You mean Shogi?
Yeah, now that
you mention it...
[gasp]
(RYOGI) 'Cause my decoy
move always works.
You fall for it every time.
Really?
Well... It's not like
I'm doing it on purpose.
(RYOGI)
Look at it again.
You think you're protecting
the King over here.
That gives me
a lot of openings.
Hey, Inojin,
what is this right here?
Oh yeah.
I don't think there's
anyone in position there.
But it should be okay.
It's quite a ways
from the headquarters.
No, not that!
I mean this building!
(INOJIN)
Oh!
That's the building where
Boruto always visits a lot...
a research lab run by
that Katasuke guy.
[gasp]
That's because you never
go on the offensive.
It's a decoy.
Looks like...their real target
is the research lab!
‐ Huh?
Oh, look. It's almost time
for a midnight snack!
[gasp]
Is there something wrong?
The protestors are about to
start gathering soon.
[gasp]
As you are still genin,
the scope of your mission
is limited.
You may observe
and you may report.
We cannot authorize
you genin
to take part
in any combat yet.
Damn it!
Why are you making that
scary face all of a sudden?
Here, you want
some of my chips?
[sigh]
You're the one
who's running away.
[grunt]
Ahhh!
‐ Damn it!
‐ Wow,
Shikadai's totally snapped!
H‐Hey, Shikadai?!
[exhale]
Sorry...
I just remembered something...
‐ Huh?!
What was that about?
I have no idea.
[grunts]
What's up with this place?
I don't think protestors
or the Byakuya Gang
are gonna show up here.
But we're still on a mission.
We have to stay alert.
Damn!
I wish we were stationed
closer to the headquarters
where all the action is!
Hm?
(BORUTO)
That's Shikadai!
What's he doing?
Hey, Boruto!
Sorry!
I gotta go!
What?
You're not allowed
to leave your post!
Hold on.
Something strange
must've happened.
Boruto's instincts
are almost always right
at times like these.
I don't know...
‐ [gasps]
‐ Hm?
[protesting and chatter]
There's no other choice.
We're going to have to
confront them...by ourselves.
[groan]
Well, it's not my fault
if we get yelled at later.
[protesting and chatter]
The Kaminarimon
Company is unjust!
[protesting and chatter]
Here they come!
Kiba,
these people aren't ninja.
So please try not to use
any ninjutsu.
Hah, that's fine by me!
[protesting and chatter]
Protect the worker's rights!
[pained grunt]
[groan]
We finally found you.
That's exactly
what we came to get.
The Byakuya Gang!
What're you doing here?
I thought you were
only interested in
the Kaminarimon Company!
[chuckle]
Yes,
that's what all the villagers
would have you believe.
But our real objective
all along was...
...your ninjutsu data.
[panicking]
Woah!
So the Byakuya Gang's
real target is
Mr. Katasuke's research lab?
I'm pretty sure.
I don't have proof though.
You don't?!
So you're just going off
a hunch you have?
You're really
not yourself today,
are you, Shikadai?
Hmmm...
It's okay.
If that's what you believe,
then I'll support you.
I'll support you too!
We're a team, after all!
[gasp]
You guys...
[chuckle]
We've gotta hurry!
M‐hm!
We're almost to the lab!
[protesting and chattering]
(DENKI)
Saradra!
What are you doing here Denki?
I've been tracking
the protestors' movements
and monitoring
their activities.
Something's not right.
What is it?
Well...their actions
are out of character
for normal citizens.
What are you saying?
[protesting and chattering]
The Kaminarimon Company
must be destroyed!
[gasp]
No way!
What is it?
[gasps]
Hey, snap out of it!
[grunt]
[gasp]
Katasuke!
[grunt]
Huh?!
Hey!
Are you okay, old man?
Oh, Young Lord...
Ow, ow, ow,
ow, ow!
This kind of defeat
is extremely embarrassing.
Mm.
The Byakuya Gang?
That's right!
Please try to catch them!
They knocked me out, and then,
they stole my magnum opus!
Your magnum opus?
Yes... Well, um...
Could you please just hurry?!
I placed a transmitter
on the leader of
the Byakuya Gang!
[pained grunts]
Young Lord, here...
Huh?
What's this?
As long as you have that,
you'll be able to track
where they are...
even if you don't sense any
chakra.
Wow, this is amazing!
Please get my magnum opus
back, Young Lord.
I will!
Just leave it to me!
[determined]
[protesters chatter]
Are you sure
everything's okay?
The uproar seems to be
getting bigger out there.
Please, don't worry!
We will protect
the Kaminarimon Company!
We'll do whatever it takes!
‐ (DENKI) Excuse me!
‐ Huh?!
Mr. Kotaro!
Denki!
What are you doing here?
You're under suspension
right now.
Yes, I realize that, sir.
Hear me out.
There's something urgent
I need to report to you!
Oh?
Okay, I'm listening.
Right! This isn't
your ordinary protest.
What exactly are you saying?
Many of the people who
are protesting in the front
have a seal on their neck.
What did you say?!
They might be under
a genjutsu,
and it's possible that
they're inciting the others.
Damn Byakuya Gang!
I see.
We'll confirm it right away.
You did well to report this.
Oh... Sure thing.
I'm glad I could help.
Right now,
it's about all I can do...
Denki...
[startled]
Thank you for the report.
I think you're doing
exceptionally well.
Oh!
Thank you!
Hey, Boss,
what is that thing anyway?
Doesn't look like
it's very valuable.
Heh... This is a very precious
storage device.
Why would you want
his storage device?
Every ninjutsu
that exists in the world
has been recorded
in this storage device
it's incredibly valuable data.
Be it Secret Ninjutsu or
Kekkei Genkai, it's all there.
There are so many people who
want this, I can't keep count.
Wow, that's great.
We can get a high price
for it then.
That's right.
Our haul up until now
is nothing
compared to what we'll get
for this priceless treasure.
Hmm...
That data's going to benefit
the people of the world,
right?
Hmm...
Of course!
It's selfish to keep something
all to yourself
that is good for
the entire world.
I'm all for sharing
when the time is right.
Plus, this is for
true justice anyway.
Huh?!
Uhh?
We won't let you get away!
We caught up with you,
you rotten thieves!
[shocked]
How did you know
you'd find us here?!
It's useless to run away.
Mr. Katasuke's science
showed us where you were.
Science?!
Tch!
Boss!
On your back!
Gah!
I riled up the demonstrators
into a giant frenzy...
so no one would detect
our chakra.
But science gave us away?!
Hand that thing over now!
That's Mr. Katasuke's...
...precious...precious...uh...
I forgot...
What's it called?
[laugh] You ran after us
without knowing?
Clearly, you bratty kids
are in a situation
that's over your heads.
Oh shut up!
Whatever it's called,
give it back now!
[fighting]
Boss, get out of here now.
We'll take care of them!
Good! Do it!
You! Come with me!
‐ Right!
‐ Uh?!
‐ Wait!
‐ Shikadai!
Whaddya say?!
Should we get outta here too?
Yeah, but deal with him first!
[protesters cheering]
I heard everything myself!
The Kaminarimon Company
always works us to the bone,
but then they want to keep
100% of the profits
for themselves!
Who'd you hear that from?
Huh?
Who was it that told
you that crazy story?
I don't know.
It was...
Uh... Let's see...
Who was it anyway?
It's true.
It's just like you said,
Mr. Kotaro.
They're under a genjutsu.
Release!
What the‐‐? Uh...
What on earth
am I doing here?
What are all these people
doing here?!
Super Beast Scroll!
Ahh!
Partial Expansion Jutsu!
‐ Ahh!
Looks like you're
the last one left, huh mister?
You kids really are
a bunch of spoiled brats!
Fire Style: Fox Fire!
Die!
Ohh?!
Whoa!
This came on kind of fast!
Aaaah!
Cho‐Cho!
[laugh]
Time's up, kids.
I'll turn both of you
into ash!
Uhuh!
‐ Huh?
Stay alert until the very end.
Uncle Shikamaru?!
Ah...
So they're the Byakuya Gang?
You managed quite a feat.
Good job.
Huh?!
Uh... Yeah, thanks....
Incidentally, genin aren't
officially authorized
to take part in battle.
But this was urgent,
so I'll let it slide
this time.
[exhale]
But how'd you know
where we were?
Because I spoke with Mitsuki
and he told me that guys
were headed out this way.
So I thought I would check in
and see what was going on.
And try and calm
the rebellion.
(SHIKAMARU) I'm sure it's
going to be a bit of a drag
but it's our duty to
listen to the people.
Huh? What am I doing here?
(NARUTO)
Listen!
Hmm?
I need everyone's
attention please.
(PROTESTER)
Is that Lord Hokage?
There's been rumors about
the Kaminarimon Company.
These men are
responsible for that.
(PROTESTER)
Who are they?
Hey...
He's that guy who
stopped me back there
and chatted me up
for awhile.
First of all, they made you
believe you were friends,
and then they used genjutsu
to make you believe
all of their lies.
Genjutsu?
That's right.
We wouldn't normally
fall for stories like that.
However...
I realize that
there are some of you
who weren't happy
in the first place.
Ohh...?
This village is still undergoing
a lot of development.
And during all this,
there are those who are facing
hard and demanding times.
Perhaps there's some of you
who might be growing impatient
with the entire process.
You feel things are never
going to change.
But...
I couldn't disagree more.
Climbing the mountain
in front of us...
step by step...
if even just
a little at a time...
that's what will make
the world a better place.
[protesters chatter]
I want the Leaf Village...
to be a place where people
smile and enjoy their lives.
And for that to happen,
we need every single person's
help in the village.
So please,
lend me all of your strength.
We'll change our village
together!
[applause and cheering]
Hmmm.
All right.
Let's get down to business.
So Shikadai and Boruto
were the ones who
initially went after them?
Yeah.
I think you should try
to follow them immediately!
I wish I could,
but here's the thing...
the chaos from the protests
hasn't calmed down yet.
With everyone's emotions
running at an all time high...
there's no way for even Naruto
to find the enemy.
Then...
I guess we'll just have to
let them handle it.
Interesting...
I get why Boruto went...
but Shikadai as well?
That's right,
and he looked
unusually determined.
I wonder what brought that on.
I see.
He looked unusually
determined, did he?
Give it your all then...
my idiot son.
‐ Uhh?!
No way!
The train!
Nice timing.
Exactly as planned.
‐ Ohh!
This way!
Ryogi...
What're you doing, Shikadai?!
Those two are
about to get away!
Yeah, I'm aware of that!
[laugh]
Now that we're on this
train,
it's a direct line to
the other side of the border.
No one will be able to
stop us now.
(BORUTO)
I wouldn't be so sure!
Checkmate.
Shikadai!
(SHIKADAI) Ryogi, why do you
go so far to protect this guy?
(RYOGI) Because this man
saved my life!
(SHIKADAI) Is this really
the kind of life
you had hoped for?
(RYOGI) In this world,
you just have to accept
the role that you were
cast to play...
Its just another way
of living!
(SHIKADAI) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"The Figure I Want to Be"
Know what?
I think you're straining
to fit into a mold
that's too tight.